Add PHP How To and Reference docs (#471)
paketo-buildpacks/paketo-website: content/docs/howto/php.md

To configure the buildpack to use a specific PHP version when deploying your app, set the
following environment variable at build time, either directly (ex. `pack build
my-app --env BP_PHP_VERSION=8.0.0`) or through a
[project.toml](https://github.com/buildpacks/spec/blob/main/extensions/project-descriptor.md)
file:

{{< code/copyable >}}
BP_PHP_VERSION="8.0.0"
{{< /code/copyable >}}

#### Set the version via a `composer.json` file

If your apps use `composer`, you can specify the PHP version your apps use
during deployment by configuring the `require` field in the `composer.json`
file. To configure the buildpack to use PHP v8.0 or greater when deploying your
app, include the values below in your `composer.json` file:

{{< code/copyable >}}
{
  "require": {
    "php": ">=8.0"
  }
}
{{< /code/copyable >}}

If your app has a `composer.lock` file, the buildpack will use
the php version defined there.

#### Unsupported: Using buildpack.yml

Specifying the PHP version through `buildpack.yml`  has been
removed as of PHP language family buildpack v1.0.0.  To migrate from using
`buildpack.yml` please set the `$BP_PHP_VERSION` environment variable.

### Configure the PHP library directory

> In order to modify the default PHP include path in the PHP `.ini`
> configuration (where PHP will look for files to include), users can append
> onto the default libray code directory of `lib` for PHP by setting the
> `BP_PHP_LIB_DIR` environment variable at build-time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add directories to the [`include_path`](https://www.php.net/manual/en/ini.core.php#ini.include-path) set in the default `php.ini`, buildpack users can set the
`BP_PHP_LIB_DIR` environment variable at build-time.
```

Is this an accurate paraphrase of what the buildpack's doing? I figured it'd be easier to link out to PHP docs 🙂

Author: yes!

{{< code/copyable >}}
  pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env BP_PHP_LIB_DIR=some-lib-directory
{{< /code/copyable >}}

### Configure PHP with a custom `.ini` file

> If you'd like to configure custom `.ini` files in addition to the default
> `php.ini` provided by the [PHP Dist buildpack][bp/php-dist], users can provide
> their own configuration file in the application source directory under a
> directory named `.php.ini.d/`.  The path to the configuration you added will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to configure custom `.ini` files in addition to the default
`php.ini` provided by the [PHP Dist buildpack][bp/php-dist], you can provide
your own configuration file in the application source directory under a
directory named `.php.ini.d/`.  The path to the configuration you added will be
```

appended onto the `PHP_INI_SCAN_DIR` during the build process, for use by PHP
at runtime. Check out the reference docs about the
[`PHP_INI_SCAN_DIR`]({{< ref "docs/reference/php-reference#php_ini_scan_dir"

> >}}) for more information about defaults. In short, if unset, the
> `PHP_INI_SCAN_DIR` will include the path to default PHP `.ini` configuration
> set by the PHP dist buildpack, in addition to configuration added by session
> handler buildpacks if applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>}}) for more information about defaults.
```
I don't think you need more than the link for the purposes of How To docs.

### Use Extensions
There are two ways to enable extensions when using the Paketo PHP Buildpack.
The only extensions available for usage at this time are the ones that come
with the distribution of PHP.

#### Enable extensions through a custom `.ini` snippet
An `.ini` snippet is a valid PHP configuration file. The buildpacks will look

> for any user-provided snippets under `<APP-ROOT>/.php.ini.d/*.ini.`. As

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for any user-provided snippets under `<APP-ROOT>/.php.ini.d/*.ini`. As
```

> An `.ini` snippet is a valid PHP configuration file. The buildpacks will look
> for any user-provided snippets under `<APP-ROOT>/.php.ini.d/*.ini.`. As
> mentioned in the [Configure PHP with a custom `.ini` file section]({{< ref
> "docs/reference/php-reference#configure-php-with-a-custom-ini-file">}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `.ini` snippet is a valid PHP configuration file. The buildpacks will look
for any user-provided snippets under `<APP-ROOT>/.php.ini.d/*.ini`, as
mentioned in the [Configure PHP with a custom `.ini` file section]({{< ref
"docs/reference/php-reference#configure-php-with-a-custom-ini-file">}}).
```

An example snippet could look like:
{{< code/copyable >}}
extension=bz2.so
extension=curl.so
{{< /code/copyable >}}

#### Enable extensions through a `composer.json`
If you are using Composer (see section below on how to do this) as a package
manager, you can specify extensions through the `composer.json` file.

An example of a `composer.json` file with extensions specified would look like:
{{< code/copyable >}}
{
    "require": {
        "php": ">=7.1",
        "ext-bz2": "*",
        "ext-curl": "*",
    },
}
{{< /code/copyable >}}

## Configure Composer
The [Composer][bp/composer] and [Composer Install][bp/composer-install]
buildpacks allow for user-set configuration options for Composer.

> #### Unsupported: Using buildpack.yml
> 
> Specifying the PHP version through `buildpack.yml` configuration has been
> removed as of PHP language family buildpack v1.0.0.  To migrate from using
> `buildpack.yml` please set the environment variable equivalents instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Is this meant to be here? Seems like copied from above section?

`COMPOSER_AUTH` can be set as a JSON-formatted object containing objects
defined in the [Composer
docs](https://getcomposer.org/doc/03-cli.md#composer-auth).

{{< code/copyable >}}
pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env COMPOSER_AUTH='{"http-basic": <some-creds>}'
{{< /code/copyable >}}

## Select a web server

The PHP buildpack supports the use of 3 different web servers:

 - PHP Built-in Web Server (default)
 - Apache HTTPD Web Server
 - Nginx Web Server

You can configure which web server to use by setting the `BP_PHP_SERVER`
environment variable at build-time.  The setting options are `php-server`,
`httpd`, `nginx`, with the default value of `php-server` if unset. The PHP
Built-in Server buildpack will only pass detection if there is a `*.php` file
in the web directory of the application.

{{< code/copyable >}}
  pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env BP_PHP_SERVER="php-server"
{{< /code/copyable >}}

#### Unsupported: Using buildpack.yml

Specifying the PHP version through `buildpack.yml` configuration has been
removed as of PHP language family buildpack v1.0.0.  To migrate from using

> `buildpack.yml` please set the environment variable equivalents instead.

Reviewer: Also seems like copypasta from above. Maybe this is meant to be a different feature?

## Set server configuration
If you're using `httpd` or `nginx`, a suitable `httpd.conf` or `nginx.conf`
will be generated for you by the buildpack and made available in a layer.
Check out the [PHP Reference documentation]({{< ref
"docs/reference/php-reference" >}}) for an enumeration of the defaults set for
`httpd` and `nginx`.

Additional configuration can also be provided via environment variables.

### Provide your own web server configuration file
If either `httpd` or `nginx` are the selected web server via the
`BP_PHP_SERVER` environment variable, users can provide their own
configurations in the form of a server-specific configuration file.

#### Provide `httpd` specific configuration

> In the `httpd` case, user-included configuration can be placed be found in the
> application source directory under `<app-directory>/.httpd.conf.d/*.conf`. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide your own HTTPD configuration, place `*.conf` files in your
application source directory under `<app-directory>/.httpd.conf.d/*.conf`. This
```

is helpful in the event that you want to set custom settings that are not
configurable via environment variables in the PHP HTTPD buildpack.

#### Provide `nginx` specific configuration

> In the `nginx` case, user-included configuration can be placed in the
> application source directory under `<app-directory>/.nginx.conf.d/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide your own NGINX configuration, place configuration files in your
application source directory under `<app-directory>/.nginx.conf.d/`.
```

Server-specific configuration should be inside a file named  `*-server.conf`,
and HTTP configuration should be inside a file with the naming structure
`*-http.conf`. This is helpful in the event that you want to set custom
settings that are not configurable via environment variables in the PHP Nginx
buildpack. Check out [Nginx documentation][external/nginx-conf-docs] for what
settings can be applied to server and HTTP blocks.

### Configure FPM settings
The PHP buildpack includes support for the [PHP FastCGI Process
Manager][external/fpm] (FPM) when used in conjunction with a web server. In
this case, the [PHP FPM buildpack][bp/fpm] will generate FPM configuration for
you to work with the web server of choice. On top of setting up FPM
configuration, the buildpack will consider configuration from user provided
sources (see `Override Default FPM Configuration` section below)

Check out the [PHP Reference documentation]({{< ref
"docs/reference/php-reference" >}}) for an enumeration of the defaults set for
FPM.

#### Override Default FPM Configuration
Users can provide FPM configuration by providing a configuration file in the

> application source directory under `.php.fpm.d/*.conf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
application source directory under `<app-directory>/.php.fpm.d/*.conf`.
```

Reviewer: For consistency with prior examples

User-provided configuration will be considered the highest precedence source of
configuration, and should be provided in an `.ini` compliant format in order to
be considered by PHP FPM.

### Configure the web directory

> The top-level directory for the web servers to find files to serve can be set
> via the web directory. For the `httpd` and `nginx` server cases can be
> overwritten from the default of `htdocs` via the `BP_PHP_WEB_DIR` environment
> variable at build-time.
> 
> For the PHP built-in server case, the default web
> directory is the `/workspace`, but this can also be overrwritten with the
> `BP_PHP_WEB_DIR` environment variable. The PHP built-in server will only pass
> detection if a `*.php` file is found inside of the web directory.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The top-level directory where a web server finds files to serve is
the _web directory_.  In the PHP buildpack, when the web server is 
HTTPD or NGINX, the web directory defaults to `htdocs.` When the web server is
the PHP built-in server, the web directory defaults to `/workspace`.

In all cases, the default can be overridden by setting the
`BP_PHP_WEB_DIR` environment variable at build-time.

Note: The PHP built-in server will only pass
detection if a `*.php` file is found inside of the web directory.
```

> The top-level directory for the web servers to find files to serve can be set
> via the web directory. For the `httpd` and `nginx` server cases can be
> overwritten from the default of `htdocs` via the `BP_PHP_WEB_DIR` environment
> variable at build-time.
> 
> For the PHP built-in server case, the default web
> directory is the `/workspace`, but this can also be overrwritten with the
> `BP_PHP_WEB_DIR` environment variable. The PHP built-in server will only pass
> detection if a `*.php` file is found inside of the web directory.
> 
> In all cases, the web directory path should be provided relative to the application
> directory root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The top-level directory where a web server finds files to serve is
the _web directory_.  In the PHP buildpack, when the web server is 
HTTPD or NGINX, the web directory defaults to `htdocs.` When the web server is
the PHP built-in server, the web directory defaults to `/workspace`.

In all cases, the default web directory can be overridden by setting the
`BP_PHP_WEB_DIR` environment variable at build-time. The value
provided should be a path relative to the application root.

Note: The PHP built-in server will only pass
detection if a `*.php` file is found inside of the web directory.
```

Reviewer: Just as an FYI -- overwrite != override. I think the latter is usually the one we want when talking about configuration.

Author: This always confuses me. Thank you for pointing it out

{{< code/copyable >}}
  pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env BP_PHP_WEB_DIR="some-web-dir"
{{< /code/copyable >}}

### Enable/disable HTTPS Redirect
The HTTPS redirect feature is enabled by default in the `nginx` and `httpd`

> cases. It can be disabled for in these cases by setting the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cases. It can be disabled by setting the
```

`BP_PHP_ENABLE_HTTPS_REDIRECT` environment variable to `false` at build-time.
When this feature is enabled, the server will redirect HTTP requests to HTTPS.
Check out server-provided documentation for details on what this entails for
each case.

{{< code/copyable >}}
  pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env BP_PHP_ENABLE_HTTPS_REDIRECT=false
{{< /code/copyable >}}

### Configure server admin for HTTPD

> The server admin in the `httpd` case can be overrwritten from the default of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server admin in the `httpd` case can be overridden from the default of
```

**NOTE: The Paketo Full builder is required because PHP relies on operating
system libraries only present in the Full builder.**

## Configure PHP

### Install a Specific PHP Version

The [PHP Dist CNB][bp/php-dist] allows you to specify a version of PHP to use during
deployment. This version can be specified in a number of ways, including

> through `BP_PHP_VERSION` environment variable, `composer.lock`, or `composer.json` file. When specifying a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
through the `BP_PHP_VERSION` environment variable, `composer.lock`, or `composer.json` file. When specifying a
```

{{< code/copyable >}}
{
  "require": {

>     "php": ">=8.0"

Reviewer: This bit says 8.0 but the explainer text above says v7.1. I can't add a "suggestion" that fixes bc it's not in the PR diff.

  }
}
{{< /code/copyable >}}

If your app has a `composer.lock` file, the buildpack will use
the php version defined there.

#### Deprecated: Using buildpack.yml

Specifying the PHP version through `buildpack.yml` configuration will be

> deprecated in PHP language family buildpack v1.0.0.  To migrate from using

Reviewer: Is this deprecated (i.e. users are warned) or removed in PHP v1.0.0? Does the buildpack fail if a `buildpack.yml` is provided?

Author: Ah yes, it's been removed fully. I'll update all related lines, good call

`buildpack.yml` please set the `$BP_PHP_VERSION` environment variable.

> ### Configure the PHP library directory

Reviewer: Any sense of why someone might want to do this? A brief mention of a use-case could be helpful.

> Users can override the default libray code directory of `lib` for PHP by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can override the default library code directory of `lib` for PHP by
```

Reviewer: Not sure why the spellchecker isn't catching this...

setting the `BP_PHP_LIB_DIR` environment variable at build-time.
{{< code/copyable >}}
  pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env BP_PHP_LIB_DIR=some-lib-directory
{{< /code/copyable >}}

### Configure PHP with a custom `.ini` file

> If you'd like to configure custom `.ini` files in addition to the default
> `php.ini` provided by the [PHP Dist buildpack][bp/php-dist], users can provide
> their own configuration file in the application source directory under a
> directory named `.php.ini.d/`. Check out the reference docs about the
> [`PHP_INI_SCAN_DIR`]({{< ref "docs/reference/php-reference#php_ini_scan_dir"
> >}}) for more information about defaults.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to configure custom `.ini` files in addition to the default
`php.ini` provided by the [PHP Dist buildpack][bp/php-dist], you can provide
your own configuration file in the application source directory under a
directory named `.php.ini.d/`. Check out the reference docs about the
[`PHP_INI_SCAN_DIR`]({{< ref "docs/reference/php-reference#php_ini_scan_dir"
>}}) for more information about defaults.
```

Reviewer: Looking at the PHP_INI_SCAN_DIR docs, it's not clear to me what the default value of the env var is – or whether that info is relevant to getting my custom `*.ini` file included in the build. Does a user need to set or update `PHP_INI_SCAN_DIR` to include a custom `*.ini`?

### Use Extensions
There are two ways to enable extensions when using the Paketo PHP Buildpack.
The only extensions available for usage at this time are the ones that come

> with the distribution of PHP.

Reviewer: Are these enumerated somewhere? If so, a link here would be helpful.

Author: I intentionally left this off. It is ONLY defined in the v2 buildpacks but I intend to fully rework this soon / make it available in release notes on the v3, so I felt it was easier to leave off for now.

Reviewer: Makes sense to me! Is there an issue tracking this improvement to the PHP release notes?

Author: https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/php-dist/issues/381

#### Enable extensions through a custom `.ini` snippet

> An `.ini` snippet is a valid PHP configuration file, the buildpacks will look
> for any user-provided snippets under `<APP-ROOT>/.php.ini.d/*.ini.`. As
> mentioned in the [Configure PHP with a custom `.ini` file section]({{< ref
> "docs/reference/php-reference#configure-php-with-a-custom-ini-file">}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `.ini` snippet is a valid PHP configuration file. The buildpacks will look
for any user-provided snippets under `<APP-ROOT>/.php.ini.d/*.ini.`. As
mentioned in the [Configure PHP with a custom `.ini` file section]({{< ref
"docs/reference/php-reference#configure-php-with-a-custom-ini-file">}})
```

An example snippet could look like:
{{< code/copyable >}}
extension=bz2.so
extension=curl.so
{{< /code/copyable >}}

#### Enable extensions through a `composer.json`
If you are using Composer (see section below on how to do this) as a package
manager, you can specify extensions through the `composer.json` file.

An example of a `composer.json` file with extensions specified would look like:
{{< code/copyable >}}
{
    "require": {
        "php": ">=7.1",
        "ext-bz2": "*",
        "ext-curl": "*",
    },
}
{{< /code/copyable >}}

## Configure Composer
The [Composer][bp/composer] and [Composer Install][bp/composer-install]
buildpacks allow for user-set configuration options for Composer.

#### Deprecated: buildpack.yml configuration
Note that specifying any configurations through `buildpack.yml` configuration
will be deprecated in PHP language-family buildpack v1.0.0.
To migrate from using `buildpack.yml` please set the environment variable
equivalents instead.

### Set the Composer version
To define a version of Composer to use, set `BP_COMPOSER_VERSION` at build

> time. A supported version must be provided, the supported versions can be found

Reviewer: ```suggestion
time. A supported version must be selected The supported versions can be found
```

{{< /code/copyable >}}

To define **global** `composer install` configurations, set the
`BP_COMPOSER_INSTALL_GLOBAL` environment variable at build-time to a
space-separated list of global installation options.

{{< code/copyable >}}
pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env BP_COMPOSER_INSTALL_GLOBAL="friendsofphp/php-cs-fixer squizlabs/php_codesniffer=*"
{{< /code/copyable >}}

### Set a custom Composer vendor directory
To define a custom vendoring location for Composer packages, users can set the
`COMPOSER_VENDOR_DIR` environment variable at build-time. It is a
[Composer-native environment
variable](https://getcomposer.org/doc/03-cli.md#composer-vendor-dir) setting.
It must be set as a relative path under the application source directory root.

{{< code/copyable >}}
pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env COMPOSER_VENDOR_DIR="vendor"
{{< /code/copyable >}}

### Set the `composer.json` path
To define a custom `composer.json` path, users can set [Composer-native
environment variable `COMPOSER`](https://getcomposer.org/doc/03-cli.md#composer) at build-time.

{{< code/copyable >}}
pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \

>   --env COMPOSER="composer"

Reviewer: Could you swap the example to make it more clear that `COMPOSER` should be set to the path of the `composer.json` file?

e.g.
```suggestion
  --env COMPOSER="other-name-composer.json"
```

Author: Yea, totally my bad.

{{< /code/copyable >}}

### Set Composer authentication
To set up authentication for Composer, the Composer-native environment variable
`COMPOSER_AUTH` can be set as a JSON-formatted object containing objects
defined in the [Composer
docs](https://getcomposer.org/doc/03-cli.md#composer-auth).

{{< code/copyable >}}
pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env COMPOSER_AUTH='{"http-basic": <some-creds>}'
{{< /code/copyable >}}

## Select a web server

The PHP buildpack supports the use of 3 different web servers:

 - PHP Built-in Web Server (default)
 - Apache HTTPD Web Server
 - Nginx Web Server

You can configure which web server to use by setting the `BP_PHP_SERVER` environment variable at build-time.

> The setting options are `php-server`, `httpd`, `nginx`, with the default value of `php-server` if unset.

Reviewer: Flagging that this might need to be updated if detection criteria change

Author: 👍 great call.

{{< code/copyable >}}
  pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env BP_PHP_SERVER="php-server"
{{< /code/copyable >}}

#### Deprecated: buildpack.yml configuration
Note that specifying any configurations through `buildpack.yml` configuration
will be deprecated in PHP language-family buildpack v1.0.0.
To migrate from using `buildpack.yml` please set the environment variable
equivalents instead.

## Set server configuration
If you're using `httpd` or `nginx`, a suitable `httpd.conf` or `nginx.conf`
will be generated for you by the buildpack and made available in a layer.
Check out the [PHP Reference documentation]({{< ref
"docs/reference/php-reference" >}}) for an enumeration of the defaults set for
`httpd` and `nginx`.

Additional configuration can also be provided via environment variables.

### Provide your own web server configuration file
If either `httpd` or `nginx` are the selected web server, users can provide

> their own configurations in the form of a server-specific configuration file.

Reviewer: Do you have to set `BP_PHP_SERVER` if you provide an `nginx.conf` or `httpd.conf`?

Author: yup. fixed to be clear

#### Provide `httpd` specific configuration

> In the `httpd` case, user-included configuration can be placed be found in the
> application source directory under `<app-directory>/.httpd.conf.d/*.conf`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `httpd` case, user-included configuration can be placed in the
application source directory under `<app-directory>/.httpd.conf.d/*.conf`.

```
Is this an alternative to providing your own `httpd.conf` file? Or is this the explanation of how to provide one?

Author: How to provide one.

Author: clarified

#### Provide `nginx` specific configuration
In the `nginx` case, user-included configuration can be placed in the
application source directory under `<app-directory>/.nginx.conf.d/`.
Server-specific configuration should be inside a file named  `*-server.conf`,
and HTTP configuration should be inside a file with the naming structure

> `*-http.conf`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand the distinction between server configuration and HTTP configuration. How  do I determine which one to use?

Author: I'll link out. I don't think it's my place to describe.

### Configure FPM settings
The PHP buildpack includes support for the [PHP FastCGI Process
Manager][external/fpm] (FPM) when used in conjunction with a web server. In
this case, the [PHP FPM buildpack][bp/fpm] will generate FPM configuration for
you to work with the web server of choice. On top of setting up FPM
configuration, the buildpack will consider configuration from:

- PHP  (in the PHP Dist buildpack)
- other buildpacks (such as PHP Nginx)

> - the user (see `Supply user-provided FPM configuration` section below)

Reviewer: I'm finding this list of precedence a bit confusing - and not necessarily actionable. For a How To guide, it probably suffices to tell people where they can learn about the defaults (which you've done) and then tell them how to tweak those defaults.

Author: removed it!

Check out the [PHP Reference documentation]({{< ref
"docs/reference/php-reference" >}}) for an enumeration of the defaults set for
FPM.

> #### Supply user-provided FPM configuration

Reviewer: Re: comment above
```suggestion
#### Override Default FPM configuration
```

Users can provide FPM configuration by providing a configuration file in the
application source directory under `.php.fpm.d/*.conf`.

User-provided configuration will be considered the highest precedence source of
configuration, and should be provided in an `.ini` compliant format in order to
be considered by PHP FPM.

### Configure the web directory

> The PHP web directory for the `httpd` and `nginx` server cases can be

Reviewer: What is the PHP web directory? Googling didn't reveal anything compelling.

Author: added some context. I had it wrong here.

overwritten from the default of `htdocs` via the `BP_PHP_WEB_DIR` environment
variable at build-time. For the PHP built-in server case, the default web
directory is the `/workspace`, but this can also be overrwritten with the
`BP_PHP_WEB_DIR` environment variable.

{{< code/copyable >}}
  pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env BP_PHP_WEB_DIR="some-web-dir"
{{< /code/copyable >}}

### Enable/disable HTTPS Redirect

> The HTTPS redirect feature is enabled by default and can be disabled for the

Reviewer: What does this feature do? Why would I want to turn it on/off?

Author: I mean it enables HTTP requests to be redirected to HTTPS requests. I don't think it's my place as a buildpack author/docs writer to describe to a user about what this means.

`httpd` and `nginx` server cases by setting the `BP_PHP_ENABLE_HTTPS_REDIRECT`
environment variable to `false` at build-time.

{{< code/copyable >}}
  pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env BP_PHP_ENABLE_HTTPS_REDIRECT=false
{{< /code/copyable >}}

### Configure server admin for HTTPD
The server admin in the `httpd` case can be overrwritten from the default of
`admin@localhost` via the `BP_PHP_SERVER_ADMIN` environment variable at
build-time.

{{< code/copyable >}}
  pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env BP_PHP_SERVER_ADMIN=some-admin@localhost
{{< /code/copyable >}}

> ### Overwrite the start process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Override the start process
```

of our configuration docs for details on how to use the buildpack.

## Enable a session handler via service bindings
The PHP Buildpack supports using session handlers for
[Memcached](https://memcached.org/) and [Redis](https://redis.io/) instances
via the [PHP Memcached Session Handler Buildpack][bp/memcached] and the [PHP
Redis Session Handler Buildpack][bp/redis].
Check out the [PHP session handler documentation][external/php-session-handler]
for more information on what a PHP session handler is. 

In order to configure a session handler for either Redis or Memcached the user
must provide a [service binding]({{< ref "/docs/howto/configuration#bindings"
>}}).

### Enable the session handler for Redis
To configure a Redis instance session handler, the provided service binding
should contain the following:

| Binding File | Value |  Required | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `type`   | `php-redis-session` | yes     | Binding type
| `host` or `hostname`   | Default: 127.0.0.1 | no     | Redis instance IP address
| `port`  | Default: 6379 | no     | Redis instance port
| `password` | Omitted if unset | no     | Redis instance password

> The configurations from the service binding are parsed and used to create a
> `php-redis.ini` file with session details, and its path is appended to the
> `PHP_INI_SCAN_DIR` for usage by PHP when the app starts up.

Reviewer: This implementation info may not be necessary for a user who's just trying to set up redis.
```suggestion
```

When performing a build with the `pack` CLI, passing the service binding will look like the following:

{{< code/copyable >}}
  pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT=/bindings \
  --volume <absolute-path-to-binding>:/bindings/php-redis-session
{{< /code/copyable >}}

### Enable the session handler for Memcached
To configure a Memcached instance session handler, the provided service binding
should contain the following:

| Binding File | Value |  Required | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `type`   | `php-memcached-session` | yes     | Binding type
| `servers`   | Default: 127.0.0.1 | no     | Memcached instance IP address
| `username`  | Omitted if unset | no     | Memcached instance username
| `password` | Omitted if unset | no     | Memcached instance password

> The configurations from the service binding are parsed and used to create a
> `php-memcached.ini` file with session details, and it's path is appended to the
> `PHP_INI_SCAN_DIR` for usage by PHP when the app starts up.

Reviewer: Likewise, this might not be relevant for someone who just wants to know how to get things working.
```suggestion
```

look like the following:

{{< code/copyable >}}
  pack build my-app --buildpack paketo-buildpacks/php \
  --env SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT=/bindings \
  --volume <absolute-path-to-binding>:/bindings/php-memcached-session
{{< /code/copyable >}}

## Install a custom CA certificate
Users of the PHP buildpack can provide their own CA certificates and have them
included in the container root truststore at build-time and runtime by
following the instructions outlined in the [CA
Certificates]({{< ref "/docs/howto/configuration#ca-certificates" >}})
section of our configuration docs.

## Set environment variables for app launch time
PHP buildpack users can embed launch-time environment variables in their
app image by following the documentation for the [Environment Variables
Buildpack](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/environment-variables/blob/main/README.md).

## Add custom labels to the app image
PHP buildpack users can add labels to their app image by following the
instructions in the [Applying Custom
Labels]({{< ref "/docs/howto/configuration#applying-custom-labels" >}})
section of our configuration docs.

## Run a build with `DEBUG` logging

> Users of the PHP buildpacck can access extra debug logs during the image build process by setting the `BP_LOG_LEVEL`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users of the PHP buildpack can access extra debug logs during the image build process by setting the `BP_LOG_LEVEL`
```
